In this section, we are going to begin working on our next two blocks.
Both blocks will involve querying the database for recipes.
The first block will display a list of popular recipes.
Clients will have the option of fine tuning their results to specific cuisines or limiting the number
of posts in the block.
The ultimate goal is to provide a list of popular recipes based on ratings.
As usual, I have provided starter files for this block.
Check out the resource section of this lecture.
You know the drill.
Create these files in your project.
The name of the block should be called Popular Recipes.
Pause the video and give it a try.
I'll do the same.
Welcome back.
Let's go through the files together.
In my project, I have a directory called Popular Recipes with three files.
The block JSON file contains the typical configuration settings.
There are three attributes for storing the title of the block post count and an array of cuisines.
Nothing special so far.
Let's switch over to the index dot js file.
In this file we're importing components and functions to help us build our block.
If we scroll to the blocks templates, we are adding the inspector controls and panel body components
to add a sidebar.
Currently the sidebar is empty after the inspector controls component.
We are rendering the title and post.
The post will be represented by a div tag with a class called Single Post.
We are going to loop through this element to render a list of posts for each post.
We will render the post image title and author.
Overall, we have a basic block set up.
Let's register the block before moving on.
Open the register blocks dot php file.
In the blocks away at another array for the popular recipes.
BLOCK The name option should be set to popular recipes.
Next, let's add the options key.
Rendering posts is a dynamic action.
If a post's image is modified, the block should reflect those changes.
For this reason, we are going to use server side rendering.
Let's set the render callback option to up popular recipes.
CB.
Next let's create a PHP file for this function inside the includes slash block's directory.
Create a file called popular recipes dot php.
Define the up popular recipes CB function.
Lastly, insert the output buffer code snippet.
Everything is ready.
Let's begin working on our block in the next set of lectures.